if you know me or if you follow my
channel you'll know that I like small
computer cases particularly ITX cases
when it comes to custom builds but this
is a prebuilt bare-bones system made by
ZOTAC this is the ek7
1080 and this is one of the smallest if
not the smallest system out there with a
full sized GTX 1080 so not an MX M card
on a laptop card it's the full fat GTX
1080 from a desktop stuck into a very
small 5.8 liter case so previously ZOTAC
made a very similar product this the en
1080 K it was a very powerful
water-cooled system but there were three
kind of issues to it first it used an
MXM card it didn't have the full size
gtx 1088 ii it was expensive that thing
started at $2,000 thirdly the en 1080 K
needed to AC adapters basically had to
300 watt AC adapters I would plug into
the back end it was just honestly
unsightly and just unwieldly for a
product this small to need to a see
adapters so this one the ek7 1080 has
been updated if you want to call it that
but now it starts at $1500 which i think
is a pretty fair price for what this
thing includes so for the base model
$1500 you're not getting Ram you're not
getting storage but you're getting
basically everything else which we'll
discuss a little bit now if you think
you're one of those people that can
build a custom PC for seven bucks that's
gonna compare to this I mean in this
market with the crypto mining happening
and all the GPU pricing being as wonky
it's really difficult for me to kind of
compare this thing to what a regular
building cost right now if you're trying
to buy a GTX 1080 at a regular five or
$600 price point it's gonna be nearly
impossible people are charging like
eight 900 bucks for that stuff which
sucks so the pricing on this thing is
actually pretty good if you consider the
current market it's fair if you consider
regular pricing this system runs a
single AC adapter it's this one the 330
watt behemoth it's really large but
because it's external it keeps your case
size small so this 5.8 liter device can
sit on your media center your table
whatever you want and this thing can sit
under your table in the cab
whatever so it keeps this thing kind of
cleaner and smaller now they're able to
do that because this thing is running a
laptop CPU the 7700 to HQ so this is a
45 watt CPU the previous generation was
a desktop CPUs more energy and it
produced more heat now obviously that
one's gonna be a little more powerful in
terms of its boost clock but this thing
is very comparable and it uses a little
bit less energy so you don't have to
spend as much effort cooling this system
down the last main feature about this
mini PC and probably its best feature is
that this thing is holding a full sized
GTX 1080 this is the reference card the
founders edition and they're able to fit
all the processing power from this into
here and this has a full computer inside
this is just a graphic card and the
performance on the GTX 1080 combined
with the 7700 HQ is excellent the
desktop grade version of the 1080 is a
very capable card and it'll push an
excellent frame rates across pretty much
every single game that I played now I
don't play super graphically intense
stuff like gt5 and stuff because the
truth is I don't find those games all
that exciting I like more competitive
stuff like I don't do the single-player
games that much but single-player
multiplayer
competitive non-competitive this thing
is gonna crush it it's also a strong
performer in VR and because it's small
you can put in your backpack and you now
have a relatively portable VR capable
system now the thermal performance is
something I think a lot of people are
interested in because it's such a small
case and the previous generation the en
1080 K had water cooling but this one is
air cooled and the FEA noise is
controllable in the BIOS but if I just
left it at standard settings it's quiet
on idle but during games it can get
pretty loud now you're not putting the
system in front of your face like a
laptop like you're not playing right on
top of this thing so obviously the
decibel rating is just for reference so
you understand what's going on it really
depends on how close you sit to this
machine when I set this up on my table I
had it about three or four feet away
from me and I didn't find the fan noise
annoying or anything now there is some
thermal throttling not a lot it's hard
to pick up on it unless you're actually
running a monitoring program so I
actually didn't notice that there was
throttling in game the frame rates
didn't drop but when I looked at the
logs there was some throttling around
the one hour mark now you can't control
the fans in the BIOS so if you set the
fans more aggressively it'll get rid of
the throttling but it becomes louder so
this system 7700 HQ GTX 1080 great
performance and if you
pump up the fans yeah it doesn't
throttle but I kind of expected this
system just run a little bit quieter the
performance is good and if you said it
right it won't throttle but it's a
little loud on standard settings it's
quieter it's just that it can throttle
if you play for long periods of time
reports we're looking at five use pas a
USB type-c which doesn't support
Thunderbolt 3 and we have an SD card
audio jacks and a pair of Ethernet in
the back it's obviously not as port
filled as like a full desktop system but
for content creation or gaming they
should do the trick in terms of upgrade
ability even though it has a desktop GTX
1080 in there it's not an easy thing to
upgrade I actually think that they say
it's not upgradable but I think you
could if you really wanted to you can
see the riser in there and you can see
the PCIe connections so I feel like if
you had a small enough card in the
future that could fit into the space it
could just connect up but I'm not
entirely sure in terms of the other
stuff the drives and the memory are all
located on the bottom and you can swap
that stuff out pretty readily there's
room for a to drive and one stick of
Intel obtain memory and it can hold up
to 32 gigs of RAM
so overall the upgrade ability is good
it's just not as good as a regular
desktop system I do like this thing a
lot it's not for everyone but if you're
into small cases like I am and he likes
something that's just really clean and
relatively modern looking that can sit
on your table or your media center if
you have this up in your living room or
something this is a pretty good pickup
okay hope you guys enjoyed this video
thumbs we liked it sub zv loves it see
you guys next time